state	expanded	date_adopted
Alabama	TRUE	NA
Alaska	TRUE	NA
Arizona	TRUE	NA
Arkansas	TRUE	NA
California	TRUE	NA
Colorado	TRUE	NA
Connecticut	TRUE	NA
Delaware	TRUE	NA
District of Columbia	TRUE	NA
Florida	TRUE	NA
Georgia	TRUE	NA
Hawaii	TRUE	NA
Idaho	TRUE	NA
Illinois	TRUE	NA
Indiana	TRUE	NA
Iowa	TRUE	NA
Kansas	TRUE	NA
Kentucky	TRUE	NA
Louisiana	TRUE	NA
Maine	TRUE	NA
Maryland	TRUE	NA
Massachusetts	TRUE	NA
Michigan	TRUE	NA
Minnesota	TRUE	NA
Mississippi	TRUE	NA
Missouri	TRUE	NA
Montana	TRUE	NA
Nebraska	TRUE	NA
Nevada	TRUE	NA
New Hampshire	TRUE	NA
New Jersey	TRUE	NA
New Mexico	TRUE	NA
New York	TRUE	NA
North Carolina	TRUE	NA
North Dakota	TRUE	NA
Ohio	TRUE	NA
Oklahoma	TRUE	NA
Oregon	TRUE	NA
Pennsylvania	TRUE	NA
Rhode Island	TRUE	NA
South Carolina	TRUE	NA
South Dakota	TRUE	NA
Tennessee	TRUE	NA
Texas	TRUE	NA
Utah	TRUE	NA
Vermont	TRUE	NA
Virginia	TRUE	NA
Washington	TRUE	NA
West Virginia	TRUE	NA
Wisconsin	TRUE	NA
Wyoming	TRUE	NA
Notes	FALSE	NA
States' decisions about adopting the Medicaid expansion are as of September 2025. 	FALSE	NA
A central goal of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is to significantly reduce the number of uninsured by providing a continuum of affordable coverage options through Medicaid and the Health Insurance Marketplaces. The ACA expands Medicaid coverage for most low-income adults to 138% of the federal poverty level (FPL); see this [table](https://www.kff.org/health-reform/state-indicator/medicaid-income-eligibility-limits-for-adults-as-a-percent-of-the-federal-poverty-level/) for state by state Medicaid income eligibility levels for adults. Following the June 2012 Supreme Court decision, states face a decision about whether to adopt the Medicaid expansion. It is important to note that per CMS guidance, there is no deadline for states to implement the Medicaid expansion.	FALSE	NA
For additional information, including a downloadable map and detailed table of state actions toward adopting Medicaid expansion, please click [here](https://www.kff.org/medicaid/issue-brief/status-of-state-medicaid-expansion-decisions-interactive-map/).	FALSE	NA
Sources	FALSE	NA
Current status for each state is based on KFF tracking and analysis of state executive activity.	FALSE	NA
Footnotes	FALSE	NA
1. Ten states (Arizona, Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Utah, and Virginia) have trigger laws that require termination of the expansion if the share of federal funding drops.	FALSE	NA
2. Idaho voted to adopt Medicaid expansion in November 2018; however in 2019 Governor Brad Little signed a bill passed by the legislature that directed the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare to seek waivers for multiple changes to the expansion program, including to add a work requirement as a condition of eligibility for coverage (which was never approved) and allow individuals between 100-138% FPL to receive advanced premium tax credits to enroll in a QHP (which was rejected).	FALSE	NA
3. Three states (Idaho, Iowa, and New Mexico) have trigger laws that require the states to take some action mitigating fiscal impact if the share of federal funding drops.	FALSE	NA
4. Maine voted to adopt Medicaid expansion through a ballot initiative in November 2017; however, former Governor Paul LePage delayed implementation for months. On January 10, 2019, under a new Governor, the state began implementing the expansion with coverage retroactive to July 2018.	FALSE	NA
5. Medicaid coverage under expansion began in Missouri when the state started accepting applications in August 2021 and began processing applications in October 2021, with coverage retroactive to July 1, 2021 consistent with a state supreme court order. In May 2021, individuals who would be eligible for expansion coverage filed a lawsuit against the state after Governor Mike Parson announced that the state would not implement expansion because the ballot measure did not include a revenue source. However, in July 2021, the Missouri Supreme Court ruled that the initiated amendment is valid under the state constitution and that the legislature’s budget appropriation authorizes the state to fund expansion coverage.	FALSE	NA
6. After Nebraska voters approved of the ballot measure in November 2018, the state delayed implementation of the expansion while it sought approval for an 1115 waiver. In October 2020, CMS approved Nebraska's request for a Section 1115 waiver to implement expansion with work and healthy behavior requirements. On August 17, 2021, Nebraska terminated the waiver after being notified that the Biden administration was moving to withdraw work requirements. The state began offering all expansion adults full benefits starting October 1, 2021.	FALSE	NA
7. North Carolina's legislation to expand Medicaid also included trigger provisions to discontinue the expansion if the enhanced federal matching rate (FMAP) drops below 90% or if the state’s financing mechanisms become insufficient as well as provisions to increase hospital assessments to fund the state share of expansion, increase hospital reimbursement rates, implement a comprehensive workforce development and referral program, and seek federal approval to condition Medicaid eligibility on compliance with work requirements if there is any indication that work requirements as a condition of participation in Medicaid may be authorized by CMS.	FALSE	NA
8. Oklahoma voters approved a ballot measure on June 30, 2020 that added Medicaid expansion to the state’s constitution and prohibited any additional burdens or restrictions on eligibility for the expansion population.	FALSE	NA
9. Voters in South Dakota approved a ballot measure on November 8, 2022, which added Medicaid expansion to the state constitution. Language in the approved measure prohibits the imposition of any additional burdens or restrictions on eligibility or enrollment for the expansion population.	FALSE	NA
10. After Utah voters approved the Medicaid expansion ballot measure in November 2018, the state legislature took steps to roll back the full expansion by directing the state to submit a series of Section 1115 Waivers. On December 23, 2019, CMS approved certain provisions in the state’s "Fallback Plan" waiver request, effective January 1, 2020; the approval also included work requirements for the newly expanded adult Medicaid population. In August 2021, the Biden administration withdrew approval of the work requirement.	FALSE	NA
